docs: add Merge Protections docs (#4659)
Mergifyio/docs: src/content/docs/merge-protections/index.mdx

---
title: Merge Protections
description: Go beyond GitHub's native branch protections and craft custom, advanced rules using Mergify.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import mainScreen from "../../images/merge-protections/main-screen.png"
import bpScreen from "../../images/merge-protections/branch-protections.png"
import requiredChecksScreen from "../../images/merge-protections/required-check.png"
import mergeAfterBody from "../../images/merge-protections/merge-after.png"
import dependsOnBody from "../../images/merge-protections/depends-on.png"
import scheduleFreezeScreen from "../../images/merge-protections/schedule-freeze.png"
import commentScreen from "../../images/merge-protections/schedule-freeze.png"

[GitHub's branch
protection](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-protected-branches/about-protected-branches)
and
[rulesets](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-rulesets/about-rulesets)
are foundational, but their customizations are somewhat limited.

> For more advanced or specific scenarios, Mergify's Merge Protection can step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more advanced or specific scenarios, Mergify's Merge Protections can step
```

Author: fixed

## Why Mergify Over Native GitHub Branch Protection and Rulesets?

1. **Advanced Conditions**: Mergify supports a vast array of conditions, which
   means you can create extremely specific rules based on any of the pull
   request metadata.

2. **Dependencies**: Leverage dependencies between pull requests.

3. **Scheduled Merges**: Make sure merges are done on the right time.

4. **Freeze**: Schedule one-time or recurring total or partial freeze for your
   repository.

## Enabling Merge Protections

Merge protections can be configured directly from your
[dashboard](https://dashboard.mergify.com) by clicking on the `Merge
Protections` link in the sidebar.

<Image src={mainScreen} alt="Mergify Merge Protections" />

Once enabled on your repository, Mergify will post a check entitled `Mergify
Merge Protections` on your pull requests. You need to ensure this checks is
required in your branch protection settings or in your rulesets.

<Image src={bpScreen} alt="GitHub Branch Protection" />

Once `Mergify Merge Protections` is required in your repository rules, it will
be marked as enforced in your GitHub checks and will prevent any pull request

> to be merged if does not matches your conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be merged if it does not match your conditions.
```
